Tony Cottman who really put this program
together and helped design the car and
TC you said it started press conference
faster stronger sexier just talk about
the process how quickly came together
and how good this thing looks yeah I
mean obviously we all start off with a
concept of what we expect the car to
look like I want it to look like that
probably dead took longer than yet
probably took a couple of weeks to get
it to where we wanted it and then it was
how could they build it and follow that
so we've got to where we are today by
obviously countless hours and not to
mention thousands and thousand hours in
the wind tunnel you said something
before we started this interview about
Danny Anderson the man that funds this
thing what he told you I think started
yeah pretty much you know they were
there was not too many constraints
there's pretty much go do what you think
we need he was involved in absolutely
everything we did I present soon in the
info he made a decision we moved on it
was very very simple clean and you know
I hope it translates to something
anybody's happy with you take the mic
and just show us the highlights of the
suspension and the bodywork and
everything okay as you see it's very
very raised nose very flat a lot
different shape than what you see a lot
of year under the under the front quite
a large under wing it's got a got a
traditional keel right under here
just like you see on on the Indy car
large area under the belliston and this
is a significant amount of time right
here the air intake the cutout under the
side pod the shape of the under wing and
in the shape of the lead here crammed
enix the amount of air and there is
great but you've got to be able to do
something with it and as we know on the
Indy car a larger undoing it becomes
detrimental to the to the lift of the
car so this under wing is is really
designed
a lot around what we learnt on IndyCar
but thousands of hours and the
Windtunnel got us to where we are here
and just coincidentally we increase the
lift speed from the time we started this
time we finished by about thirty mile an
hour so the speed that it takes off at a
five degree inclination we raised by
about thirty mile an hour which is
significant talk about the engine two
liter four-cylinder an inline
turbocharged engine that's going to
produce a 450 horsepower with an
additional 50 horsepower push to pass so
it's when you look at the percentage of
the push to pass in there 50 horsepower
for 450 that's a huge amount so the
baby's got some power and it's
turbocharged but you really like right
we like to boats but we need it to sound
cool so we've been tuning the exhaust to
the sound on the dyno so wait to hear it
all right Tony comment hello job I've
had about 50 people already say man
that's so good-looking
can we start that in the Indy 500
hopefully it will the Indy cars will
take this look someday but I give to
Laura props for doing the right thing
fantastic and hey one other thing the
Indy car drivers seat fits right in this
I want to see some IndyCar drivers drive
some of these things very cool probably
if we didn't have you we wouldn't have a
new India lights car and we might not
have f2000 and miles and all the other
series you supported just talk about
your passion for this and why you
decided to keep pushing
I don't know that's a good that's a good
question I love racing I've always been
a gearhead since I was a kid I was
actually involved in amateur drag racing
back in Englishtown New Jersey 1990 I
got involved in open wheel with my son
and developed a real passion for open
wheel 1990 so I'm not in it as long as
you I I read your mailbag and I don't
know all the people I've been about but
I got the book man so I started a series
of 92 usf 2000 and I ran it all through
the 90s got to know people like buddy
rice and Sam Hornish Jr and Dan Wheldon
and a lot of other drivers that came
through that series and it stayed with
me I sold that series in 2001 started my
own teams and ran teams for six or eight
years lost my shirt yes which team goes
ooh but that actually made me a better
promoter because I have a heart for team
owners now so when we when we do things
with a series in the back of my mind in
the front of my mind as always how is
this affecting the teams that's my
continuity the drivers come and go in a
minor league series and development
series is the better word but the driver
is moving it out but the team owners of
my partner so I have to protect them I
have to give them a model that'll work
and it's worked well for me
IndyCar to welcome me back into the usf
2000 and 2010 they talked me into pro
Mazda in 2012 and they talked me into
any lights in 2013 so so why do I do it
I love racing but I have no idea ask my
wife
Tony comment your right-hand man said it
was pleasure working with you because
you pretty much car ponch said make it
look good make it fast do what you got
to do this thing anybody to the naked
eye this is so much better than the Indy
car right now hopefully the Indy car can
looked as good some day I'm hearing that
from the IndyCar drivers that's part of
what we wanted and I'm sure as I said I
didn't I wasn't just saying it dalaras
been a great partner and Tony Coffman is
the man I mean he knows more and you
have no idea the nuts and bolts have
been
and the hardware and their wiring looms
and all the stuff and where's the fuel
cell gonna be there's a million details
and he's in there making sure that we're
getting a proper racecar
all the while building it as light as
possible and as strong as possible I
mean it wouldn't have happened without
Tony and do you think you know the
fields have been down the last couple
years cause guys were anticipating a new
car have you got any feedback yet from
people outside saying you come with a
new car we're gonna come racing with you
there's been a lot of interest and we
what we need most of all is more teams
and we have a lot of team interest both
from the open-wheel ranks and the sports
car racks teams that are interested in
what we're doing and interested in
coming and playing
I mean budgets are always an issue but
I've said it before budgets are not what
kept drivers away from Indy Lights we
need more teams that are not so
dependent on driver budget we need teams
that are willing to develop drivers and
maybe subsidize them a little bit that's
more important than guys just needing to
get the maximum dollar from a driver I
mean when I get there it's not gonna
happen next year but when I get there
it'll start to work I mean even in f2000
we have teams giving drivers seats for
numbers that as a team owner I could
never do but they're helping the kids
there they're investing in the kids and
that's that's what I'm all about well
the other thing is this is very racy but
I've I've never heard anybody say
anything bad about you which scares me
because that you must be a lot smarter
than most of the people I've hung around
with in racing for the last 50 years but
I will say this it's good to have
somebody that puts his money where his
mouth is like Dan answered it the new
Indy Lights car is pretty breathtaking
and thanks for watching Rachel commas
Robin Miller